# Posts for 2016 April

@meta docType index

## Code and Google translate: awesomeness

Post by Nico Brailovsky @ 2016-04-08 | [Permalink](md_blog/2016/0408_CodeandGoogletranslateawesomeness.md)  | [Leave a comment](https://github.com/nicolasbrailo/nicolasbrailo.github.io/issues/new?title=Comment@md_blog/2016/0408_CodeandGoogletranslateawesomeness.md&body=I%20have%20a%20comment!)

Some time ago I found out one of my articles was translated to another language (yay for that, woo for not letting me know about it). To understand what my own article said, I had to use Google translate on the site. Guess what? c++ and Google translate can produce hilarious results:


```c++
# The include "throw.h" the extern "the C" {void seppuku () {throw statement the Exception () ; }}
```

Another one I liked:

```c++
the struct the Exception {};

#ifdef __cplusplus
the extern "the C" {
#endif

void seppuku ();

# Ifdef __cplusplus
}
# endif
```

Now you know it. Next time you're looking at some incomprehensible c++ code, run it through Google translate. It may improve it.





---

## Ubuntu 15.10: Ubuntu ME

Post by Nico Brailovsky @ 2016-04-05 | [Permalink](md_blog/2016/0405_Ubuntu15.10UbuntuME.md) | [4 comments](md_blog/2016/0405_Ubuntu15.10UbuntuME.md) | [Leave a comment](https://github.com/nicolasbrailo/nicolasbrailo.github.io/issues/new?title=Comment@md_blog/2016/0405_Ubuntu15.10UbuntuME.md&body=I%20have%20a%20comment!)

Warning: semi-useless rant ahead. TL;DR: Avoid Ubuntu 15.10 - it's the closest Linux has ever been to Windows ME.

I have been using Ubuntu for a while now. From the time when Canonical actually mailed real, physical CDs of the distro. So get of my lawn.

In all of my Linux years I have never, ever, had such a horrible installation experience as I did this weekend with Ubuntu 15.10. I may go as far as saying not even Windows ME was this horrible to install. I hit dozens of critical show-stopper bugs, from poor UEFI support to an installer that crashed when clicking "Go back". And that's only the installation, don't get me started on the new KDE Plasma 5 desktop... (hint: my big desktop screen is NOT a phone. Swiping to login? Bad idea for a mouse).

A few hints for any other poor souls that made the fatal mistake of installing Ubuntu ME:
* UEFI? Say no. Get a different computer if you can. Try to set it in legacy mode if you can not.
* Try not to repartition and install Ubuntu on the same go. Even more so if you have UEFI. First install, then rearrange partitions with a live cd.
* If you get a few (or a few dozen) "system crash notifications" when starting up your GUI, check /var/crash. Delete everything from there.
* If you want Kubuntu, don't install Ubuntu and then apt-get install kubuntu-desktop. That's broken. If you want Kubuntu just get its install image.
* Don't install Kubuntu. Really, it's horrible and it crashes. (You though I called 15.10 Ubuntu ME for no reason?)
* Don't like Gnome? XFCE is usable and can be configured to look more or less like a sane version of KDE. It still crashes but at least it's quick to boot.
* If you get a disk check on every startup just disable it on fstab. No, it's not nice. I haven't found any other workarounds yet.

I have no idea when has Ubuntu gone so horribly bad, but I'm not looking forward to installing any Ubuntu distro anytime soon. I wonder what Slackware looks like these days.

2016? Still not the year of the Linux desktop.

**Update:** XFCE is great... except it doesn't really support moving the mouse. Seems Ubuntu is having a nostalgic release and decided to introduce [old bugs from 2012](http://askubuntu.com/questions/701119/xfce-drag-and-drop-pointer-stuck-on-some-windows)!






