# Slideware engineering: My audio demos

@meta publishDate 2026-01-19
@meta author Nico Brailovsky

Writing [a note on AI](md_blog/2026/0118_AI.md) made me think of a good example of "using AI to do a thing I wouldn't have done otherwise". This example falls within the third taxonomy I describe in the note: AI isn't just augmenting my code, but actively writing large chunks of it. The results are loosely based on my examples, but I don't actually understand large chunks of it.

I've been sitting on examples and training material on how to work with audio. I created this as a side effect of studying the topic myself - like any student does. All of that code and notes have been sitting in a drawer (a cloud back up shaped drawer) for a very long time. Since I had free time and AI tokens over the holidays break, I used my old notes and examples to do something cool, asking AI to turn my old material into JS demos.

For audio, JS demos can yield pretty impressive results. I am, for example, [particularly happy with this demo](https://nicolasbrailo.github.io/SlidewareEngineering/AirToArrays/#/logHumanHearing), showing how human hearing is logarithmic. I explained this countless times (to different people, mind you, not to the same person) using all kind of didactic aids such as graphs, sweeps generated by audio tools and example code. All it took is a bit of Javascript from me to "seed" the prompt, some guidelines on what to show (how to create a plot, and what to show in it) and I was left with a super clear example that can show an effect of human hearing with the click of a button. Next time I need to explain this topic, it should take me 10x less time.

These code examples, together with my notes and an old [template based on Impress JS I've used for ages](https://nicolasbrailo.github.io/SlidewareEngineering/00_js_slides_template/#/title), and my old studying material is now transformed into something resembling passable how-to-audio sessions, with cool interactive demos.

Check out ["Arrays to Air"](https://nicolasbrailo.github.io/SlidewareEngineering/AirToArrays/) for a basic explanation of digital audio processing, including an abuse of WebAudio oscillators to create the worst iFFT the world has ever seen. Also check out ["Stop Copying Me"](https://nicolasbrailo.github.io/SlidewareEngineering/StopCopyingMe/) for a more in-depth explanation of how echo cancellation works for telephony applications. There are some more in my [SlidewareEngineering index](https://nicolasbrailo.github.io/SlidewareEngineering/), which I hope to update as I release new ones.


