# Ubuntu 15.10: Ubuntu ME

@meta publishDatetime 2016-04-05T09:00:00.000+02:00
@meta author Nico Brailovsky
@meta originalUrl https://monkeywritescode.blogspot.com/2016/04/ubuntu-1510-ubuntu-me.html

Warning: semi-useless rant ahead. TL;DR: Avoid Ubuntu 15.10 - it's the closest Linux has ever been to Windows ME.

I have been using Ubuntu for a while now. From the time when Canonical actually mailed real, physical CDs of the distro. So get of my lawn.

In all of my Linux years I have never, ever, had such a horrible installation experience as I did this weekend with Ubuntu 15.10. I may go as far as saying not even Windows ME was this horrible to install. I hit dozens of critical show-stopper bugs, from poor UEFI support to an installer that crashed when clicking "Go back". And that's only the installation, don't get me started on the new KDE Plasma 5 desktop... (hint: my big desktop screen is NOT a phone. Swiping to login? Bad idea for a mouse).

A few hints for any other poor souls that made the fatal mistake of installing Ubuntu ME:
* UEFI? Say no. Get a different computer if you can. Try to set it in legacy mode if you can not.
* Try not to repartition and install Ubuntu on the same go. Even more so if you have UEFI. First install, then rearrange partitions with a live cd.
* If you get a few (or a few dozen) "system crash notifications" when starting up your GUI, check /var/crash. Delete everything from there.
* If you want Kubuntu, don't install Ubuntu and then apt-get install kubuntu-desktop. That's broken. If you want Kubuntu just get its install image.
* Don't install Kubuntu. Really, it's horrible and it crashes. (You though I called 15.10 Ubuntu ME for no reason?)
* Don't like Gnome? XFCE is usable and can be configured to look more or less like a sane version of KDE. It still crashes but at least it's quick to boot.
* If you get a disk check on every startup just disable it on fstab. No, it's not nice. I haven't found any other workarounds yet.

I have no idea when has Ubuntu gone so horribly bad, but I'm not looking forward to installing any Ubuntu distro anytime soon. I wonder what Slackware looks like these days.

2016? Still not the year of the Linux desktop.

**Update:** XFCE is great... except it doesn't really support moving the mouse. Seems Ubuntu is having a nostalgic release and decided to introduce [old bugs from 2012](http://askubuntu.com/questions/701119/xfce-drag-and-drop-pointer-stuck-on-some-windows)!


# Comments

---
## In reply to [this post](), [ffuugoo](/md_blog/youfoundadeadlink.md) commented @ 2016-04-05T09:56:12.000+02:00:

 2016? Still not the year of the Linux desktop.
 It is! Haven't you heard about "Ubuntu-on-Windows" yet?.. :)

Original [published here](/md_blog/2016/0405_Ubuntu15.10UbuntuME.md).

---
## In reply to [this post](), [ffuugoo](/md_blog/youfoundadeadlink.md) commented @ 2016-04-05T09:56:28.000+02:00:

 2016? Still not the year of the Linux desktop.
 It is! Haven’t you heard about “Ubuntu-on-Windows” yet?..:)

Original [published here](/md_blog/2016/0405_Ubuntu15.10UbuntuME.md).

---
## In reply to [this post](), [ffuugoo](/md_blog/youfoundadeadlink.md) commented @ 2016-04-05T09:57:36.000+02:00:

Sorry for the double-comment.

Original [published here](/md_blog/2016/0405_Ubuntu15.10UbuntuME.md).

---
## In reply to [this post](), [nicolasbrailo](/md_blog) commented @ 2016-04-05T10:02:55.000+02:00:

I'm not sure what to think about the Ubuntu on Windows thing, since I don't use Windows. I did assume it was a 1st of April thing, since that's when I read it... maybe ubuntu 15.10 was just a huge 1st of April prank?

Original [published here](/md_blog/2016/0405_Ubuntu15.10UbuntuME.md).
